# LanguageStudyGUI
A Graphical User Interface (GUI) program to help the user practice translating vocabulary between two languages. This program uses English and German.

This program used the Java Swing library to create a Graphical User Interface (GUI) program that helps the user learn foreign language vocabulary. The program is essentially a flash-card program where a word is displayed and the user must enter the translation of the word. The user can practice these flashcards for as long as they deem fit. In two separate text files are a list of English words, and in the other text file, the same exact words translated into German. The GUI program will randomly select and display a word from either the English list or the German list, and the user had 5 seconds to correctly translate the word into the opposite language before the textbox would lock, and a message would appear. This message would either say "Correct!" or "Incorrect! Answer: " followed by the correct translation of the word.

The program checks if the correct translation was entered whenever the user clicks the OK button, or when the user hits the Enter key while their cursor is in the text field, or after a time limit of 5 seconds has elapsed after a word is displayed.  After the user input has been checked and the Correct/Incorrect message has been displayed, the program will wait a small amount of time (e.g., 3 seconds) so that the user can read if they were correct or incorrect, see the correct answer if they answered something wrong, and take a few moments to process the information.  During this time, the user is not able to modify the text field. Additionally, when a new word is displayed, the user input text field should be set to empty so that the user does not have to erase what they previously typed. 
